27 EU countries, a shared history and cultural identity. European Heritage sites are milestones in the creation of today’s Europe: they celebrate and symbolise ideals, values and integration. Thanks to these sites, we can experience firsthand the richness and diversity of our cultural and creative expressions, inherited from the past and treasured for the future. Since 2013, the European Heritage Label has been assigned to sites for their symbolic value, the role they have played in European history and the activities they offer. These sites bring the European Union and its citizens closer together. Did you visit any of these places? Let us know in the comments! #EuropeanUnion In the EU, almost 90 million persons with disabilities face hurdles when travelling or moving abroad. It is high time we change it. And this is why we are working to introduce the European Disability Card. Thanks to it, card holders would be able to simply travel across our Union and benefit from the same conditions, easily accessing services in all the 27 EU countries. A consultation on the introduction of the European Disability Card is now open! Share your view ➡️ https://europa.eu/!8nDtfx The European Disability Card would help us strengthen our #UnionOfEquality. #EUHaveYourSay #EUDisabilityRights 25 years ago, the leaders and people of Northern Ireland decided to plant a seed in soil previously stained with blood and tears. The seed of peace and possibility for new generations, which has been growing ever since. Today President von der Leyen, has traveled to Queen's University in Belfast to pay tribute to all those who planted that seed. To all the visionary leaders who believed that while history shapes people, people can also shape history. With the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, leaders of Northern Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom put an end to decades of violence. We will continue to do our part and to accompany them on the path of peace and prosperity. The future of Northern Ireland belongs to its people. #GoodFridayAgreement #EuropeanUnion ??‍?? Only 54% of people aged 16-74 have basic digital skills in Europe. We need to do much better on digital skills and treat them with the same importance as reading and writing. That's why we have adopted two proposals for Council Recommendations on key enabling factors for digital education and on improving the provision of digital skills. The proposals will encourage EU countries to: ?? create national strategies for digital education and skills, ?? invest in digital equipment, tools and content for educational institutions, ?? support the development of digital skills in all sectors and all levels. ?? We are also launching a pilot European Digital Skills Certificate to help people get their digital skills recognised across Europe! Together, let’s empower every European with the skills they need to succeed in the digital world. #EuropeanYearOfSkills #EUDigitalEducation We need to invest in and strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities. Today we proposed the Cyber Solidarity Act to reinforce the EU’s coordinated actions to detect, prepare for and effectively respond to growing cybersecurity threats and incidents. Our proposal introduces a: ??️ European Cyber Shield, an infrastructure of Security Operations Centres across the EU to detect and act on cyber threats ?? Cyber Emergency Mechanism to strengthen preparedness ??️ Cybersecurity Incident Review Mechanism to assess significant incidents We also presented a dedicated Academy to help increase the number of skilled cybersecurity professionals in the EU by bringing together existing initiatives on cybersecurity skills and making them available on an online platform. #DigitalEU #EuropeanUnion In the last decades China has become an economic powerhouse and a key global player. It is now reducing its dependency on the world while increasing the world’s dependency on itself. We need to develop a new approach. Speech by President von der Leyen in the European Parliament. Solidarity brings light in dark hours ?? 169 generators arrived last week in Ukraine from Australia, coordinated via the #rescEU energy hub in Poland. To date, the EU has coordinated some 3,000 power generators to Ukraine via donations and own reserves. These generators range from smaller sizes, capable of powering single households, to much larger models that can keep vital services such as hospitals and central heating points running. We will #StandWithUkraine for as long as needed. ??© Minderoo Foundation ?? Every life lost and serious injury on our roads is avoidable. To help reduce the number of accidents, last month we proposed new rules that will make roads safer and simplify everyday life. Among others: ?? a new EU-wide digital driving licence, ❌ zero-tolerance rule on drink-driving, ?? tougher cross-border enforcement rules, ?? measures to prepare drivers for today's micro-mobility, ??‍?? valuable driving experience for young and novice drivers. Our goal is to halve road fatalities and serious injuries by 2030 and have no deaths on EU roads by 2050. Our proposals will steer the wheel towards safer roads, for everyone. #RoadSafety #VisionZero Climate change is wreaking havoc around the world with wildfires, floods and tropical storms. We need to be one step ahead to protect our homes and loved ones from these devastating disasters. This is where the EU Civil Protection Mechanism comes in. Aiming to make the world safer, the Mechanism pools resources and expertise from all EU countries and beyond. This enables us to respond quickly and effectively to climate-related emergencies. See how we're making a difference in Madagascar through our EU-funded disaster risk reduction programme. Together, let's build a safer and more resilient future with #EUCivilProtection. #TogetherOneStepAhead #ClimateAction Where is the EU? All around you In 30 years, the Cohesion Fund has invested almost€179 billion in bridges, railways and so many other projects across our Union. The Fund focuses on EU countries with a gross national income below 90% of the EU average to boost convergence between European economies. Among many others, the Cohesion Fund has helped build the: ???? rail track Koper-Divača ???? hydroelectric powerplant in the dam of Alqueva. ???? tramway extension in Bratislava ???? Warsaw metro What EU funded project have you seen in your region? #EuropeanUnion #EUFunds We must protect Europe’s cultural heritage. ????️⛪ From ancient castles and stunning landscapes to historic monuments, these treasures are a testament to the rich history and diversity of our continent. This year’s 7 most endangered cultural heritage sites in Europe are... ???? Kortrijk Railway Station, Kortrijk, Belgium, ???? Partisan Memorial Cemetery, Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina, ???? Tchakvinji Fortress, Zugdidi, Georgia, ???? Sisters’ House Ensemble, former Moravian settlement in Kleinwelka, Germany, ???? Memento Park, Budapest, Hungary, ???? Cultural Landscape of Sveti Stefan, Paštrovići, Montenegro, ???? Watermills of Bistrica, Petrovac na Mlavi, Serbia. The selection of the sites is based not only on the level of threat or the value of the cultural heritage site, but also on the commitment of the local community, and therefore the potential to save it. We are proud to support Europa Nostra and the European Investment Bank in running the 7 Most Endangered Programme, a civil society campaign aiming to shed light on and protect Europe’s collective cultural legacy. ?? Flickr: Europa Nostra #7MostEndangered #EuropeForCulture When you first called from this cell phone, you had no idea that in the future there would be no extra cost to call any EU country! 50 years ago, the first mobile phone call was made, and the world of communication changed forever. ???? Today, we can stay connected with our loved ones and work from anywhere, thanks to the mobile technology that has evolved over the decades. And with the EU roaming regulation, we can enjoy this connectivity without worrying about extra fees while traveling in the EU. With our roaming legislation extended for 10 more years, citizens from EEA ???? ???? ???? ???? can continue calling, texting, and surfing the internet with the same conditions when roaming abroad as at home. So, let's celebrate the past and the present of mobile technology, and roam like at home! Do you recall ?? having used this telephone? #Roaming #DigitalEU Russia’s war crimes will not go unpunished. We are determined to ensure that the perpetrators of the barbaric acts committed during this invasion will pay for their crimes and that Russia will be held accountable for the crime of aggression. #StandWithUkraine Greener, stronger, and better prepared for the future! Our Recovery and Resilience Facility is all about building a more resilient Europe for generations to come. From funding for green technologies, small- and medium-sized business and climate change adaptation, to supporting youth employment, healthcare projects and digital education, this facility is designed to benefit all EU countries and their citizens. With just over two years of existence and worth €723 billion, the Recovery and Resilience Facility has already been driving hundreds of reforms and investments across Europe – and more will come! Curious, how it benefits your country or region? Check out our interactive map and explore over 350 projects funded so far. #NextGenerationEU Imagine if 450 million people and 23 million companies could move and trade without barriers. A freedom worth €14.5 trillion and over €8.1 trillion in investments. This is the Single Market, Europe’s crown jewel and the world’s second exporter. A 30-year success story of breaking trade barriers, safeguarding consumers, and protecting the environment by: ?? developing 3,600 harmonised standards, from toy safety to packaging waste; ?? enabling 9% of EU enterprises with e-commerce sales to trade across Europe, while supporting more with the Digital Markets Act; ?? giving 3.4% of EU citizens employment opportunities in another EU country, while opening opportunities in deep and clean tech; ?? looking beyond the present, promoting an EU-wide circular economy and the net-zero industry; ?? and more... What else have we missed that changed your life? Tell us in the comments! #SingleMarket #EuropeanUnion Aware of anyone circumventing EU sanctions on Russia or Belarus? If the answer is yes, you can make an anonymous report to us. The information reported may relate to the following: ?? EU sanctions violations, ?? circumstances of violations, or ?? individuals, companies and third countries involved, that are not publicly known but are known to you. This can be past, ongoing or planned sanctions violations, but also attempts to circumvent EU sanctions. Violating EU sanctions will not pay off. #EuropeanUnion #StandWithUkraine ?? Calling all cultural heritage experts! Ukrainian cultural legacy remains under considerable threat of further destruction and damage. One of the Kremlin's plans is to eliminate Ukrainian national identity – but we will not allow it. We are setting up a group of 25 experts to help safeguard Ukrainian cultural heritage. The group will include experts from ???? and will lay the groundwork for ????'s support in this area. If you're an expert in preserving cultural heritage, join us in safeguarding Ukraine's history. Don't miss this opportunity to make a difference! Apply by 25 April → https://europa.eu/!NrrJP3 #StandWithUkraine #EUsolidarity #ARTvsWAR Peace and prosperity must be re-won, day after day, generation after generation. 25 years ago, brave leaders made the impossible come true by signing the Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement. Thanks to it, there is a whole generation of young people in Northern Ireland who were born and raised in peace. After a quarter of a century of peace, we recently renewed our commitment to maintaining peace and prosperity with the Windsor Framework. It will preserve peace by avoiding a hard border on the island, while also protecting the integrity of the EU’s Single Market. ♻️ Reduce, reuse, recycle... repair! What do you do when your phone or laptop breaks? More often than not, it is easier to simply replace a defective device rather than repair it. Our recent proposal for the ‘right to repair’ aims to reduce waste, boost the repair sector and make repairs easier for consumers. Supporting the objectives of the EU Green Deal, the initiative is set to have a positive impact over the next 15 years on: ?? environment → 18.5 million less tons of greenhouse gas emissions, ?? economy → €15.6 billion savings for sellers and producers in the EU, ?? consumers → €176.5 billion savings. By repairing more goods and using them longer, EU consumers can not only enjoy sustainable consumption, but will also achieve considerable savings! #EUGreenDeal #RightToRepair Thousands of children have been abducted and deported to Russia. They have been removed from their families and communities. They are being deprived of their childhood and their roots. This is yet another blatant attempt at erasing the Ukrainian identity. It is undeniable. It is unforgivable. And it is punishable. In partnership with the Ukrainian authorities and the Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki, we have launched an initiative aiming at bringing back these children. We will also organise a conference to pull together international pressure to take all possible measures to establish the whereabouts of these children. ?? “The last minute together” by Inga Dagilė for CreativesForUkraine #StandWithUkraine Pedaling our way to better health, a cleaner planet, and more affordable transportation has never been easier! The summer of 2023 will be a milestone for cycling. We will propose a European Declaration on Cycling, inviting the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to sign up for it. We want to ensure that all our European initiatives, wherever possible, include a cycling dimension; supporting sustainable urban mobility plans, doubling the number of safe cycling infrastructures or creating more bicycle parking facilities. By taking action to promote cycling, we’re not only helping the environment, but we’re also supporting a growing biking industry. #DYK that 8 out of 10 electric bikes sold in Europe are made in Europe? ?? Let's work together to support the growth of the biking industry while creating a more sustainable and healthy future for all. #EUGreenDeal Russia's attack on the Kramatorsk train station was shocking. One year ago, 61 people were killed and scores of others were injured, many of whom critically. What happened on 8 April 2022 was a brutal, indiscriminate bombing of innocent civilians, including many children, fleeing amid fears of another Russian onslaught against their homes and country. Kramatorsk, Bucha and other Ukrainian towns and villages have been part of the Kremlin's deplorable destruction tactics. Putin must be held accountable for his crimes. Not only do we want Russia's criminal plan to fail. We also want justice for Ukraine and for Ukrainians. We stand with the victims of these atrocities, we #StandWithUkraine Discrimination has no place in our union. On International Roma Day, we celebrate the rich diversity, language, art and culture of the Roma. They are Europe's largest ethnic minority with a population of around 10-12 million. Although there have been some improvements in education, Roma still face marginalisation and widespread discrimination, leading to socio-economic exclusion in everyday life. This year, we are proud to work with the Council of Europe on the EQUIROM project to combat stereotypes about Roma in the media. We believe that every individual deserves equal treatment and respect, and we are committed to turning this vision into reality for all in our #UnionOfEquality. #EU4Roma #UnitedInDiversity IRIS ² is the latest addition to our constellations of satellites. IRIS ² has a Secure Connectivity system which will strengthen our resilience and reaction capacity against cyber threats. It also bring connectivity to the entire Europe, including zones that do not currently have signals at all. Together with our existing space programmes Galileo and Copernicus, IRIS² creates a sovereign and secure communication service for our Union and its partners. EU satellite constellations also help fight climate change: Copernicus, for example, collects data on climate, land and oceans for a more sustainable future. Here are 4 pictures of EU capital cities taken by Copernicus! Share their names with us in the comments! #EUSpace #EuropeanUnion Today is World Health Day. But no matter the day, we continue to take steps to build a more resilient Health Union for the future. A Union that ensures access to safe, effective, and affordable healthcare for all EU citizens. To achieve this goal, we have launched several initiatives: ?? the Pharmaceutical Strategy for Europe which will improve access to safe and affordable medicines and treatment, ??️ the Europe's Beating Cancer Plan which will monitor inequalities in access to cancer prevention and care and support efforts to improve patients' access to healthcare, ?? the EU4Health programme with an unprecedented budget of €5.3 billion, which will address inequalities across EU countries and improve access. ?? our Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority with the mission to prevent, detect, and rapidly respond to health emergencies. #WorldHealthDay #HealthUnion EU-China relations are extensive and complex. How we manage them will impact EU prosperity and security. This relationship – and its future – have been at the core of President Ursula von der Leyen’s visit to Beijing. With Premier Li, President von der Leyen discussed how to rebalance our trade and mentioned during her press conference the possibility to resume our High Level Economic and Trade Dialogue to engage on this. The meeting with President Xi and President Emmanuel Macron has been the opportunity to address imbalances in our economic relations and look at cooperation on pressing global issues like Russia’s war and global change climate. Together with China, we have the duty to uphold and promote the rules-based international order. Starting with the end of the Russian invasion and withdrawal of its troops. President von der Leyen highlighted the need to address imbalances and risks stemming from dependencies and export of sensitive tech, and to remain vigilant on China’s actions on Ukraine. She also stressed our concerns on human rights. #EuropeanUnion Did you know that 5.8 million tonnes of textiles are discarded every year in the EU? That's 11.3 kg per person! Textile consumption is one of the top three pressures on water and land use. The sector has also the fourth highest impact on the environment and climate change, after food, housing, and transport. We need to move towards a more sustainable and circular textiles sector. It’s part of our Circular Economy Action Plan that covers the whole economy. Our proposals will ensure that by 2030, all textile products placed on the EU market are long-lived and recyclable and produced in respect of social rights and the environment. #ReFashionNow All the single bees! All the single bees! Now put your wings up! ???? We may need to work on the lyrics, but we're serious about protecting our pollinating friends. With over 1 million citizens supporting the European Citizens' Initiative, the call to phase out synthetic pesticides by 2035, restore biodiversity, and support farmers in transitioning to sustainable practices is loud and clear. We now call on the European Parliament and Council to quickly turn these actions into laws while maintaining high targets for the Common Agricultural Policy and European Green Deal. By doing so, we can protect our food supply, our environment and the future of our pollinators. #EUTakeTheInitiative #Sustainability #SaveTheBees War criminals must be held accountable for their deeds. Putin must be held accountable for his crimes. The EU will continue to spearhead efforts to ensure accountability by: ?? Working on the collection of evidence; ?? Bringing prosecutors together; ?? Setting up an International Coordination Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression; ?? Supporting the creation of a dedicated tribunal if that's what it takes. Not only do we want Russia's criminal plan to fail. We also want justice for Ukraine and for Ukrainians. #StandWithUkraine ?? Missed your jump over the mushroom? ?? Splatted next to your target? ?? Drifted your kart outside the track? This shall happen no more! We've recently contacted Nintendo to address the recurring technical problem with defective Switch controllers, and we're happy to report that they've agreed to offer all consumers the right to repair, free of charge, even beyond the legal guarantee! This will prevent the disposal of unrepaired controllers and unnecessary waste. ?? So don't wait, jump into action and get your controllers repaired for free. Let's-a go! #EuropeanUnion #Right2Repair #Nintendo #Switch ?? #DYK that an estimated 30% of Ukraine's territory is contaminated with mines and unexploded munitions? This is why we launched a project to train and donate 5️⃣0️⃣ explosive and mine detection dogs to Ukrainian authorities; and 9️⃣ of them have already been paired with Ukrainian dog handlers. These furry heroes are trained to search for explosives inside and outside vehicles and buildings like hospitals, schools and factories, and even agricultural fields. The trainers include retired and active-duty police officers from ????, ????, ????, ????, and ???? who have broad experience in training mine detection and explosive detection dogs for securing public spaces. ?? We're proud to support this important contribution to making Ukraine a safer place for everyone. #EUsolidarity #MineAwarenessDay The EU is everywhere around you. In bridges, metros, airports, high-speed trains, and so much more. Today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Cohesion Fund, which has invested nearly €179 billion in so many projects in our Union. Among many others, the Cohesion Fund has helped build the: ???? 12.3 km-long ‘Vasco da Gama’ bridge in Lisbon, the longest bridge in Europe ???? ???? airports of Tallin and Wroclaw ???? Madrid–Barcelona–French border high-speed line Do you know other projects funded by the Cohesion Fund in your region? Tell us about them! Europe in my region #EUFunds #EuropeanUnion ???? ???????????????????????? ???????????????????????? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???????????????????????? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???????????????????????? ???????????????????????? ?????????????? ?????????? We've reached another significant achievement in our journey towards a brighter future! With last week's €6 billion payment to Spain, we've now disbursed over €150 billion to EU countries under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF). In just over 2 years, the RRF has not only helped us recover from the pandemic, but also inspired confidence in investors, showing that our Union can rise to any challenge. Let's continue to work together for a more prosperous Europe with #NextGenerationEU. #EuropeanUnion #RRF We will continue to support efforts to make sure that Putin can be held accountable for the crime of aggression. To that end, we continue to support the creation of a dedicated tribunal, if that’s what it takes. We want justice for Ukraine and for Ukrainians. ↓ Speech by President von der Leyen on the 2022 Bucha massacre. #StandWithUkraine We should never forget the atrocities suffered by the people of Bucha last year. And those responsible for this horrific massacre. Yet, Russia has played its disinformation tactics to distance itself from the many bodies of Ukrainian civilians killed in gruesome executions: ?? Deny ?? Blame others ?? Confusing facts ?? Lie This attempt has failed. Multiple investigations – including a detailed UN report – have established Russian culpability. On #FactcheckingDay, we reaffirm our commitment to countering disinformation by setting the records straight. Drumroll, please! We're thrilled to announce that two European cities have taken home the prestigious Mobility Award and Mobility Action Award for innovative mobility for their outstanding commitment to green transportation! ?? ??Braga ???? won the European Mobility Week 2022 Award for its outstanding activities in favour of green mobility, ??Metropolia GZM ???? won for the very first edition of the Mobility Action Award for innovative mobility solutions proposed by a local university. A special mention to Chernihiv, Kamianets-Podilskiy, Lviv, Poltava and Uzhhorod, the ???? Ukrainian cities that organised sustainable mobility awareness raising activities, despite the full-scale Russian aggression. Providing towns and cities with an opportunity to try out innovative traffic and transport planning is key to raise awareness on sustainable mobility. Congratulations to all finalists and winners! #EuropeanUnion #MobilityAwards #SustainableMobility Equal work deserves equal pay. And for equal pay, you need transparency. This is particularly important for women, who still earn less than men for the same work. That is why we proposed new EU rules on pay transparency that got European Parliament's approval this week. They introduce an obligation for employers to be transparent about pay levels in the job vacancies or before a job interview. Employees will also have the right to request information on average pay levels, broken down by gender, for workers doing the same job. This is another step towards a #UnionOfEquality. #PayTransparency Bucha has witnessed some of the darkest pages of history. Russia must be held accountable. For its brutal aggression. For its cold-blooded killings. For its heinous devastations. We stand with the victims of these atrocities, we #StandWithUkraine ??© Getty Images What happened in Bucha one year ago was not an isolated episode. Those executions in cold blood were part of a bigger plan. The Kremlin's plan to eliminate Ukrainians. Their national identity. Their sense of being. War criminals will be held accountable. #StandWithUkraine Our relationship with China is one of the most intricate and important. How we manage it will be a determining factor for our future economic prosperity and national security ↓ Speech by President von der Leyen on EU-China relations to the Mercator Institute for China Studies and the European Policy Centre ?? Up to 37 million tons of plastic waste is expected to enter the ocean annually by 2040. Do you still think waste sorting is a loss of time? On the International day of Zero Waste, let’s have a look at what waste means: ?? nearly 30% of the world's agricultural land is occupied to produce food that is never consumed, ?? between 2 and 8% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions are produced by the textile sector, ?? 2.24 billion tons of municipal solid waste annually produced by humanity. But we are united to fight these global challenges. How? ?? With the Right to Repair initiative, aiming at reducing waste and allowing consumers to achieve considerable savings, ?? with the rule on single-use plastic products, which tackles their disseminations, ?? with the Farm to Fork strategy, aiming at creating a sustainable food system. Reducing our waste will allow us to save money, preserve resources, and protect the planet. Let's make every day a #ZeroWasteDay! #ReduceReuseRecycle #EuropeanUnion For prosperity, For peace, For Good. We will soon mark 25 years of the #GoodFridayAgreement! ??️ The Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement was signed on 10 April 1998, offering a political solution to end the 30 years of bloody conflicts in Northern Ireland. After a quarter of a century of peace, we recently renewed our commitment to maintaining peace and prosperity with the Windsor Framework. A new chapter in EU-UK relations, the Windsor Framework will preserve peace by avoiding a hard border on the island, while also protecting the integrity of the EU’s Single Market. The UK may have left our Union, but peace remains the European promise. Together, we will keep working for reconciliation in Northern Ireland for the next 25 years and far beyond. ???? ???? ???? European companies are leaders in net-zero innovation. But manufacturing often moves outside Europe, China being the largest producer of all mass-manufactured clean tech. Our Net Zero Industry Act aims to keep European companies in Europe. Speech by President von der Leyen in the European Parliament ⬇️ More than 2,000 Ukrainian patients have been transferred to receive specialised care in hospitals across Europe via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Russia's targeting of Ukrainian hospitals and healthcare facilities has deprived chronically ill or injured patients of critical treatments. Since the early days of this brutal war of aggression, we have organised medical evacuations of Ukrainian patients to relieve the immense pressure on Ukraine's healthcare system. ▶ 20 European countries have shown their solidarity and treated them in their hospitals: ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, and ????. ▶ Last January, we opened the EU Medevac Hub in ???? Rzeszów to provide 24/7 assistance and scale up our medical evacuation operations. Our support to Ukraine – and its most vulnerable patients – is here to stay. #StandWithUkraine #EUSolidarity ?? Attention all young travelers! There's only ONE DAY LEFT to apply for a free #DiscoverEU travel pass. If you're a citizen or legal resident of ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? and born between 1 July 2004 and 30 June 2005, this is your chance to explore Europe and make unforgettable memories. Don't miss out on this amazing opportunity to travel and discover the beauty and diversity of our continent. ?? Apply now on the official Discover EU website and get ready for your next adventure: https://youth.europa.eu/discovereu_en ?? Europe currently depends on imports for many net-zero technologies. From wind turbines to batteries, Europe's green transition relies on these technologies to harvest and store the renewable energy needed to power our lives. We propose the Net-Zero Industry Act to create the right conditions to attract investment and seek to produce at least 40% of the net-zero technologies Europe needs by 2030. We will scale up the development and production of clean tech by: ?? Fostering investment with simpler and more predictable permitting processes. ?? Boosting demand for net-zero technologies by encouraging the inclusion of sustainability criteria in public procurement. ?? Supporting innovation with regulatory sandbox testing of new technologies. ?? Promoting skills for the net-zero technology industry via Net-Zero Industry Academies. ??Building international partnerships to promote the adoption of net-zero technologies globally. Let's seize the many industrial opportunities net-zero tech has to offer. Discover how we want to lead the clean tech transition in this #EUDataCrunch ?? ??© Adobe stock #EUGreenDeal #EUIndustrialStrategy What is essential is invisible to the eye… Except for books! ?? Today we celebrate European authors and their breathtaking stories that have stayed with our hearts since our childhood. And what great diversity we have in our Union! 27 literatures, full of magical tales, poignant dramas and thrilling endings. It is also a great opportunity to share your favourite author and books and to discover thousands of new ones from your fellow Europeans! So, which one would you pick? Creative Europe #ReadWithEurope #EuropeanUnion Destruction, massacres, and terror. Russia's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine has left many indelible scars. Yet, the documented deportation of 16,200 innocent children stands out for its wickedness. Their abduction and change of status – including nationality – are horrible reminders of the darkest time of our history, a blatant violation of human rights and international law. In partnership with Ukraine and Poland, we are stepping up our efforts to help find these Ukrainian children by: - holding a conference to build up international pressure and take all possible measures to establish their whereabouts; - assisting UN bodies and international organisations in gathering further information on deported children, including those adopted or transferred to Russian foster families. All these children must be brought back to their homes in Ukraine. There will be #noimpunity for this crime. From ensuring a fair and open single market to support Ukraine and exploring new opportunities in trade EU-US, EU leaders had a full agenda at #EUCO this week. Their main takeaways from the summit: ???????????????? They reaffirmed their support for Ukraine including a new initiative to return abducted Ukrainian children and provide military assistance. ????????????????????????????????, ???????????? ???????????? ?????? ?????????????? The EU Green Deal Industrial Plan is essential to boosting competitiveness and productivity, and EU leaders agreed to prioritize it. They aim to invest in infrastructure, research and development and strengthen supply chains through trade agreements. ?? ????-???? ?????????? EU leaders addressed concerns about access to the US market for EU leased electric vehicles and the treatment of critical raw materials. They also agreed to launch a dialogue on clean tech subsidies. #StandWithUkraine #SingleMarket #EuropeanUnion The lights are off tonight at our headquarters, in support of #EarthHour. Our homes, workplaces and public buildings are responsible for 40% of the energy consumed in Europe. The world's largest environmental movement Earth Hour reminds us that small actions can make a great difference for our planet. With the #EUGreenDeal, we are taking action to promote energy efficiency and achieve energy savings in the fight against climate change. Turn your lights off and join us! #EarthHour2023 In times of tragedy, solidarity is our strongest response. That is why Team Europe pledged a total of €3.6 billion for the people in Türkiye and Syria at the International Donors' Conference held in Brussels on the 20 March. Thanks to contributions from the international community, we have raised an impressive €7 billion for those in need. While we have already achieved a lot, we know there is still much to do. This is just the beginning of a long process, but we will continue our efforts to support those who need it most. #TogetherForTürkiye #TogetherForSyria People in Türkiye and Syria have our support. A total of €7 billion was pledged on 20 March at the International Donors' Conference that we co-hosted for the people in Türkiye and Syria. Team Europe’s pledge of €3.6 billion represents more than 50% of the total pledge, including: ???? €1.1billion from the European Commission, ?? €500 million from EU countries, ?? €500 million from the European Investment Bank, ?? 1.5 billion from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the coming weeks, months, and years, we will continue to work together to support those affected. Learn more with our #EUDataCrunch ?? #TogetherForTürkiye #TogetherForSyria #TeamEurope We know that 16,200 children have been deported to Russia. Only 300 have returned so far. The case of abducted Ukrainian children is a horrible reminder of the darkest times of our history. ???????? ???? ?? ?????? ??????????. These criminal actions completely justify the arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court. In partnership with the Ukrainian authorities and the Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki, we have launched an initiative aiming at bringing back these children. We will also organise a conference to pull together international pressure to take all possible measures to establish the whereabouts of these children. There will be no impunity. #StandWithUkraine Torture, ill-treatment, sexual violence, and summary executions are known to have been committed by Russian forces. Not even children are being spared. On the international day for the right to the truth, our thoughts are with the victims of human rights violations and their families, and our determination remains steadfast in holding Russia accountable for these horrific crimes. We are doing everything in our power to bring the perpetrators to justice. Just one year ago, Eurojust coordinated the creation of a joint investigation team on crimes committed in Ukraine to enquire on Russia’s actions. The European Union is also supportive of the role of the International Criminal Court. And we believe that there needs to be a dedicated tribunal to prosecute Russia's crime of aggression. We stand united for justice for Ukraine. Justice will prevail. #RightToTruth #EuropeanUnion 