Almost 90 million people in the EU have a disability. And many of them face hurdles when travelling or moving abroad, for example. It is high time we change it. And this is why we are working to introduce the European Disability Card. Thanks to it, card holders would be able to simply travel across our Union and benefit from the same conditions, easily accessing services in all the 27 EU countries. The European Disability Card would help us strengthen our #UnionOfEquality. #EUHaveYourSay #EUDisabilityRights 25 years ago, the leaders and people of Northern Ireland decided to plant a seed in soil previously stained with blood and tears. The seed of peace and possibility for new generations, which has been growing ever since. Today President von der Leyen, has traveled to Queen's University in Belfast to pay tribute to all those who planted that seed. To all the visionary leaders who believed that while history shapes people, people can also shape history. With the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, leaders of Northern Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom put an end to decades of violence. We will continue to do our part and to accompany them on the path of peace and prosperity. The future of Northern Ireland belongs to its people. ?? President ursulavonderleyen's visit to qubelfast ©️ European Union, 19 April 2023 / Source: EC - Audiovisual Service / Photographer: Dati Bendo. #GoodFridayAgreement #EuropeanUnion ?? + ?? = A Europe fit for the digital future! A digital Europe needs to lead not only in technology but also in education. ?? That’s why we are launching a pilot European Digital Skills Certificate to help people get their digital skills recognised across Europe! We have also adopted two new proposals for Council Recommendations on key enabling factors for digital education and on improving the provision of digital skills. The proposals will encourage EU countries to: ???? create national strategies for digital education and skills, ??️ invest in digital equipment, tools and content for educational institutions, ??‍?? support the development of digital skills in all sectors and all levels. Together, let’s empower every European with the skills they need to succeed in the digital world. #EuropeanYearOfSkills #EUDigitalEducation In the last decades China has become an economic powerhouse and a key global player. It is now reducing its dependency on the world while increasing the world’s dependency on itself. We need to develop a new de-risking, but not decoupling approach. For this we need: ?? a more competitive, resilient economy; ?? bolder, better use of trade defence instruments; ?? addressing leakage of emerging or sensitive tech through investment controls; ?? cooperating with partners. — President Ursula von der Leyen during her speech about EU - China relations at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. ?? President ursulavonderleyen ©️ EC Audiovisual Service Everywhere you look in the EU, there is a masterpiece! European Heritage sites are milestones in the creation of today’s Europe: they celebrate and symbolise ideals, values and integration. ?? On the International Day of Monuments and Sites, we stress the richness and diversity of our cultural and creative expressions, inherited from the past and treasured for the future. Since 2013, thanks to the European Heritage label, these sites have been selected for their symbolic value, the role they have played in European history and the activities they offer. These sites bring the European Union and its citizens closer together. Did you visit any of these places? Let us know in the comments! ?? ©️AdobeStock 1) Library of the University of Coimbra, ???? 2) Peace Palace in The Hague, ???? 3) Three brothers, complex of three colorful medieval houses in Riga, ???? 4) Frania Partisan Hospital, ???? 5) Porch of Karyatids Acropolis Hill in Athens, ???? 6) Carnuntum archeological park, ???? 7) Academy of music in Budapest, ???? 8) Ostia antica archeological area, ???? #IDMS2023 #WorldHeritageDay #EuropeanUnion "Congratulations kajakallas for your new term as Estonian Prime Minister. We will continue to work together to end Russia’s war on Ukraine and secure peace on Ukrainian terms. We will drive forward our twin green and digital transition to prepare ???? for long term challenges." — President ursulavonderleyen congratulating the Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on her election. #EuropeanUnion Solidarity brings light in dark hours ?? 169 generators arrived last week in Ukraine from Australia, coordinated via the #rescEU energy hub in Poland. To date, the ???? has coordinated some 3,000 power generators to ???? via donations and own reserves. These generators range from smaller sizes, capable of powering single households, to much larger models that can keep vital services such as hospitals and central heating points running. We will #StandWithUkraine for as long as needed. ?? © Minderoo Foundation eu_echo #EuropeanUnion ?? EU drivers, riders, bikers, pedestrians... we’ve got something for you! Last month we proposed new rules that will make Europe’s roads safer for all users and simplify everyday life. Among others, they’ll introduce: ?? a new EU-wide digital driving licence, ❌ zero-tolerance rule on drink-driving, ?? tougher cross-border enforcement rules, But wait, there's more! We will help young and novice drivers get valuable driving experience and better prepare them for the presence of vulnerable users on the road. Fasten your seatbelt, wear your helmet and help Europe halve road fatalities and serious injuries by 2030! ?? Road in summer forest at sunset in Italy ©️ Adobe Stock / ph den-belitsky #RoadSafety #VisionZero ?? Missed your jump over the mushroom? ?? Splatted next to your target? ?? Drifted your kart outside the track? This shall happen no more! We've recently contacted Nintendo to address the recurring technical problem with defective Switch controllers, and we're happy to report that they've agreed to offer all consumers the right to repair, free of charge, even beyond the legal guarantee! This will prevent the disposal of unrepaired controllers and unnecessary waste. ?? So don't wait, jump into action and get your controllers repaired for free. Let's-a go! #EuropeanUnion #Right2Repair #Nintendo #Switch We must protect our homes and loved ones from climate change disasters like wildfires ??, floods ??, and storms ⛈️. By pooling resources and expertise from all EU countries and beyond, the EU Civil Protection Mechanism can respond quickly and efficiently to climate-related emergencies. ?? Watch this inspiring video of Mirana R'Abel, a savethechildren's School Mobiliser Officer, and Alain Biasci, a French Civil Security Officer, as they implement an EU-funded disaster risk reduction programme in Madagascar. They are a real example of how working together can prevent and prepare for climate-related emergencies. It’s only by collaboration that we can stay one step ahead. #TogetherOneStepAhead #ClimateAction #EUCivilProtection eu_echo There are pieces of the EU all around Europe. In 30 years, the Cohesion Fund has invested almost €179 billion in bridges, railways and so many other projects across our Union. Among many others, the Cohesion Fund has helped build the: ???? rail track Koper-Divača ???? hydroelectric powerplant in the dam of Alqueva. ???? Warsaw metro ???? tramway extension in Bratislava What EU funded project have you spotted in your region? ?? 1. The rail track between Koper and Divača, Slovenia, photo by DRI 2. The Dam of Alqueva, Portugal 3. The tramway extension in Bratislava, Slovakia, photographer Erik Žiak 4. Warsaw metro, photo by Warsaw metro #EuropeanUnion #EUFunds We must protect Europe’s cultural heritage. ????️⛪ From ancient castles and stunning landscapes to historic monuments, these treasures are a testament to the rich history and diversity of our continent. This year’s 7 most endangered cultural heritage sites in Europe are: ???? Kortrijk Railway Station, Kortrijk, Belgium, ???? Partisan Memorial Cemetery, Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina, ???? Tchakvinji Fortress, Zugdidi, Georgia, ???? Sisters’ House Ensemble, former Moravian settlement in Kleinwelka, Germany, ???? Memento Park, Budapest, Hungary, ???? Cultural Landscape of Sveti Stefan, Paštrovići, Montenegro, ???? Watermills of Bistrica, Petrovac na Mlavi, Serbia. The selection of the sites is based not only on the level of threat or the value of the cultural heritage site, but also on the commitment of the local community, and therefore the potential to save it. We are proud to support EuropaNostraEU and the EuropeanInvestmentBank in running the 7 Most Endangered Programme, a civil society campaign aiming to shed light on and protect Europe’s collective cultural legacy. ?? Flickr: Europa Nostra 1. Cultural Landscape of Sveti Stefan, Paštrovići, Montenegro © Ivan Cucuk 2. Partisan Memorial Cemetery, Mostar, BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA © Urban house IDEAA (2022) 3. Kortrijk Railway Station, Kortrijk, BELGIUM © Flemish Association for Industrial Archaeology 4. Tchakvinji Fortress, Zugdidi, GEORGIA © City Hall of Zugdidi Municipality 5. Memento Park, Budapest, Hungary © Premier Press Kft. 6. Sisters’ House Ensemble, former Moravian settlement in Kleinwelka, GERMANY © C. Kumpe, Förderverein Schwesternhäuser e.V. 7. Watermills of Bistrica, Petrovac na Mlavi, SERBIA © Tourism Organisation of the Municipality of Petrovac na Mlavi #7MostEndangered #EuropeForCulture You??: I still remember that cell phone. EU??: And do you also remember how much it costs to call another EU country? 50 years ago, the first mobile phone call was made, and the world of communication changed forever. Today, we can stay connected with our loved ones and work from anywhere, thanks to the mobile technology that has evolved over the decades. And with the EU roaming regulation, we can enjoy this connectivity without worrying about extra fees while traveling in the EU. With our roaming legislation extended for 10 more years, citizens from EEA ???? ???? ???? ???? can continue calling, texting, and surfing the internet with the same conditions when roaming abroad as at home. ?? E-call us in the comments and let us know if you have used this phone too? ?? Phone from the 90s of the Finnish brand Nokia ©️ European Union, 2023 digitaleu #Roaming #DigitalEU #EuropeanUnion Russia’s war crimes will not go unpunished. We are determined to ensure that the perpetrators of the barbaric acts committed during this invasion will pay for their crimes and that Russia will be held accountable for the crime of aggression. #StandWithUkraine First rule of shopping: know your rights. ??️ EU consumers are protected by EU laws whenever they are purchasing a good or service. For example, with the right to a costless 2-year guarantee for all goods. Moreover, for some goods and services, you have the right to cancel and return your order within 14 days, for any reason and without justification. Check out the link in our story to test our consumer’s rights tool and understand your rights. ☝️ #EuropeanUnion #EUSingleMarket Imagine if 450 million people and 23 million companies could move and trade without barriers. A freedom worth €14.5 trillion and over €8.1 trillion in investments. This is the Single Market, Europe’s crown jewel and the world’s second exporter. A 30-year success story of breaking trade barriers, safeguarding consumers, and protecting the environment by: ?? developing 3,600 harmonised standards, from toy safety to packaging waste; ?? enabling 9% of EU enterprises with e-commerce sales to trade across Europe, while supporting more with the Digital Markets Act; ?? giving 3.4% of EU citizens employment opportunities in another EU country, while opening opportunities in deep and clean tech; ?? looking beyond the present, promoting an EU-wide circular economy and the net-zero industry; ?? and more... What else have we missed that changed your life? Tell us in the comments! #SingleMarket #EuropeanUnion Fasten your seatbelt and time travel hand in hand with our ???? astronauts! On the International Day of Human Space Flight, we celebrate the beginning of the space era for mankind ??. Space science and technology are indispensable for achieving sustainable development goals and increasing our well-being. We face many challenges: from climate change to cyberattacks. But also thanks to the work of our astronauts, we can tackle them. Our two satellite constellations play a big role in this process, and we are deploying a third one: IRIS². Its Secure Connectivity system will strengthen our resilience and reaction capacity against cyber threats. IRIS² will also create a sovereign and secure communication service for our Union and its partners. ??️ Do you know the astronauts in the video? Write their names in the comments below! #EuropeanUnion #EUSpace digitaleu ?? Calling all cultural heritage experts! Ukrainian cultural legacy remains under considerable threat of further destruction and damage. One of the Kremlin's plans is to eliminate Ukrainian national identity – but we will not allow it. We are setting up a group of 25 experts to help safeguard Ukrainian cultural heritage. The group will include experts from ???? and will lay the groundwork for ????'s support in this area. If you're an expert in preserving cultural heritage, join us in safeguarding Ukraine's history. Don't miss this opportunity to make a difference! Apply by 25 April ?? europa.eu/!NrrJP3 ?? Independence Monument and Ukrainian Flag in Kyiv © iStock / DmyTo #StandWithUkraine #EUsolidarity #ARTvsWAR #EuropeanUnion Peace and prosperity must be re-won, day after day, generation after generation. 25 years ago, brave leaders made the impossible come true by signing the Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement. Leaders, like John Hume and David Trimble, who came from opposing sides and ended up sharing a Nobel Peace Prize. After a quarter of a century of peace, we must continue to honour and protect their legacy in the face of new obstacles. The new Windsor Framework is a symbol of our renewed commitment to upholding and protecting the peace and prosperity brought by the agreement. It will preserve peace by avoiding a hard border on the island, while also protecting the integrity of the EU’s Single Market. ♻️ Reduce, reuse, recycle... repair! We know the pain of smashing your phone or spilling water on your laptop, especially when it’s beyond the legal guarantee. Our recent proposal for the ‘right to repair’ will make it easier and cheaper for consumers to repair defective goods. By reducing waste, boosting the repairs sector and making repairs easier for consumers, the initiative is set to have a positive impact over the next 15 years on: ?? environment → 18.5 million less tons of greenhouse gas emissions, ?? economy → €15.6 billion savings for sellers and producers in the EU, ?? consumers → €176.5 billion savings. By repairing more goods and using them longer, EU consumers can not only enjoy sustainable consumption, but will also achieve considerable savings! Tag that friend who always has a cracked phone screen ?? #EUGreenDeal #RightToRepair Can you spot the hidden Easter eggs in our virtual tour of Europe? The Easter Bunny has hopped on our post and left some colorful surprises for you to find! Legend has it that the Easter Bunny, or Osterhase in ???? Germany, brings decorated eggs to children. This tradition has since spread to other countries around the world. Are you ready for an egg-citing adventure? Let the Easter egg hunt begin! See if you can spot all the hidden eggs in our tour. If you recognize any of the cities in the pictures, share your guesses in the comments below. Happy hunting! ?????? #EuropeanUnion #Osterhase ?? Pedaling our way towards a greener future! The summer of 2023 will be a milestone for cycling. We will propose a European Declaration on Cycling, inviting the europeanparliament and eucouncil to sign up for it. We want to ensure that all our European initiatives, wherever possible, include a cycling dimension; supporting sustainable urban mobility plans, doubling the number of safe cycling infrastructures, or creating more bicycle parking facilities. By taking action to promote cycling, we’re not only helping the environment, but we’re also supporting a growing biking industry. #DYK that 8 out of 10 electric bikes sold in Europe are made in Europe? ?? Park your ?? in the comments and tell us when you prefer to cycle? a. To go to the supermarket b. To go to work c. To go to the cinema d. To travel #EUGreenDeal #BikeLife #Cycling #EuropeanUnion Swipe left ??, guess the EU capitals, tell us their names in the comments! #DYK that IRIS² just joined the conversation? This new EU satellite constellation has a Secure Connectivity system which will strengthen our resilience and reaction capacity against cyber threats. It will also bring connectivity to the entire Europe, including zones that do not currently have signals at all. Together with our existing space programmes Galileo and copernicus_eu, IRIS² creates a sovereign and secure communication service for our Union and its partners. EU satellite constellations also help fight climate change: Copernicus, for example, collects data on climate, land and oceans for a more sustainable future. #EUSpace #EuropeanUnion 8 April 2022 — Kramatorsk train station, Ukraine Innocent civilians, including many children, are waiting for a train to flee amid fears of another Russian onslaught against their homes and country. They don't know it yet, but Russia's brutal and indiscriminate bombing won't spare them. 61 people lost their lives in the attack, while scores of others were injured – many of whom critically. Like Bucha and other Ukrainian towns and villages, Kramatorsk has been part of the Kremlin's deplorable destruction tactics in Ukraine. Putin must be held accountable for his crimes. We stand with the victims of these atrocities, we #StandWithUkraine ?? Bloody suitcases and luggage at the Kramatorsk train station after the discriminated attack of the Russian troops. © Getty Images, 08 April 2022. In the European Union, there is no place for discrimination. ??‍♂️?? Today, on International Roma Day, we celebrate the rich diversity, language, art, and culture of the Roma, Europe's largest ethnic minority. Though improvements have been made, Roma still face marginalization and discrimination, leading to exclusion from everyday life. This year, we are proud to work with the Council of Europe on the EQUIROM project to combat Roma stereotypes in the media. We believe that every individual deserves equal treatment and respect, and we are committed to turning this vision into reality for all in our #UnionOfEquality. #EU4Roma #UnitedInDiversity Thousands of children have been abducted and deported to Russia. They have been removed from their families and communities. They are being deprived of their childhood and their roots. This is yet another blatant attempt at erasing the Ukrainian identity. It is undeniable. It is unforgivable. And it is punishable. In partnership with the Ukrainian authorities and the Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki, we have launched an initiative aiming at bringing back these children. We will also organise a conference to pull together international pressure to take all possible measures to establish the whereabouts of these children. ?? “The last minute together” by Inga Dagilė for creativesforukraine #StandWithUkraine Health rights are human rights. And it is important to mark it once more on World Health Day. Sometimes illnesses are visible, some other times they cannot be seen, such as mental health conditions. The pandemic, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its consequences, the energy crisis have only intensified this issue, especially for young people, those with less secure employment or lower education and incomes. To this end, we have already: ?? allocated €27 million to mental health actions, ?? launched a new ‘Healthier Together’ initiative to tackle mental health and neurological diseases. We continue to take steps to build a more resilient Health Union for the future. #WorldHealthDay #UnitedInProtection #HealthForAll #EuropeanUnion EU-China relations are extensive and complex. How we manage them will impact EU prosperity and security. This relationship – and its future – have been at the core of President ursulavonderleyen’s visit to Beijing. With Premier Li, President von der Leyen discussed how to rebalance our trade and mentioned during her press conference the possibility to resume our High-Level Economic and Trade Dialogue to engage on this. The meeting with President Xi and President emmanuelmacron has been the opportunity to address imbalances in our economic relations and look at cooperation on pressing global issues like Russia’s war and global change climate. Together with China, we have the duty to uphold and promote the rules-based international order. Starting with the end of the Russian invasion and withdrawal of its troops. President von der Leyen highlighted the need to address imbalances and risks stemming from dependencies and export of sensitive tech, and to remain vigilant on China’s actions on Ukraine. She also stressed our concerns on human rights. ?? President ursulavonderleyen's visit to China ©️ European Union, 06 April 2023 / Source: EC - Audiovisual Service / Photographer: Dati Bendo. #EuropeanUnion ?? #DYK that the fashion industry has the fourth highest impact on the environment and climate change, after food, housing, and transport? ?? Textile consumption is one of the top three pressures on water and land use. ??5.8 million tonnes of textiles are discarded every year in the EU. That's 11.3 kg per person! ♻️ Only 1 % of the material used around the world for clothing is recycled into new clothing. Our proposals for sustainable and circular textiles ensure that by 2030, all textile products placed on the EU market have to be long-lived and recyclable, made as much as possible of recycled fibres and produced in a fair way. By making sustainable choices, we can all play a part in creating a better future for our planet. All the single bees! All the single bees! Now put your wings up! ???? We may need to work on the lyrics, but we're serious about protecting our pollinating friends. Thanks to the European Citizens' Initiative, over 1 million citizens have called to phase out synthetic pesticides by 2035, restore biodiversity, and support farmers in transitioning to sustainable practices. We call on the European Parliament and Council to quickly turn these actions into laws while maintaining high targets for the Common Agricultural Policy and European Green Deal. Plant pollinator-friendly plants ?????? in our comments and in real life, and support local farmers who use sustainable practices. #EUTakeTheInitiative #Sustainability #SaveTheBees War criminals must be held accountable for their deeds. Putin must be held accountable for his crimes. The EU will continue to spearhead efforts to ensure accountability by: ?? Working on the collection of evidence; ?? Bringing prosecutors together; ?? Setting up an International Coordination Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression; ?? Supporting the creation of a dedicated tribunal if that's what it takes. Not only do we want Russia's criminal plan to fail. We also want justice for Ukraine and for Ukrainians. #StandWithUkraine It’s dangerous to go alone, take this: ?? ?????????? ???? ???????? ???????????? ?????? ???????? ???????????????? ???????????? ??????????????????????! ??‍♀️ Hey, listen! We contacted Nintendo to address the recurring technical problem with defective Switch controllers and Nintendo agreed to offer all consumers the right to repair, free of charge, even beyond the legal guarantee! ???? This is in line with EU consumer law and will prevent the disposal of unrepaired controllers and unnecessary waste. ⚔ You’re welcome! After all, don’t we all know that a sword wields no strength unless the hand that holds it has courage? #EuropeanUnion #Right2Repair #Nintendo #Switch #Zelda ?? #DYK that an estimated 30% of Ukraine's territory is contaminated with mines and unexploded munitions? This is why we launched a project to train and donate 5️⃣0️⃣ explosive and mine detection dogs to Ukrainian authorities; and 9️⃣ of them have already been paired with Ukrainian dog handlers. These furry heroes are trained to search for explosives inside and outside vehicles and buildings like hospitals, schools and factories, and even agricultural fields. The trainers include retired and active-duty police officers from ????, ????, ????, ????, and ???? who have broad experience in training mine detection and explosive detection dogs for securing public spaces. ?? We're proud to support this important contribution to making Ukraine a safer place for everyone. ?? ©️ All Rights Reserved / European Union. #EUsolidarity #MineAwarenessDay #MineActionCannotWait #MineDetectionDogs #EuropeanUnion The EU is everywhere around you. ???? In bridges, metros, airports, high-speed trains, and so much more. Today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Cohesion Fund, which has invested nearly €179 billion in so many projects in our Union. Among many others, the Cohesion Fund has helped build the: ???? 12.3 km-long ‘Vasco da Gama’ bridge in Lisbon, the longest bridge in Europe ???? ???? airports of Tallinn and Wroclaw ???? Madrid–Barcelona–French border high-speed line Do you know other projects funded by the Cohesion Fund in your region? Tell us about them! ?? 1. Vasco da Gama’ bridge in Lisbon 2. Airport of Tallinn tllairport 3. Airport of Wroclaw wroclawairport 4. Viaduct of the Madrid–Barcelona–French border high-speed line #EUFunds #EuropeanUnion “The future will not be built through force, nor the desire to conquer, but by the patient application of the democratic method, the constructive spirit of agreement, and by respect for freedom”. Alcide de Gasperi believed in European unity and boosted its creation since the end of the war. He believed that only an alliance among countries could prevent a recurrence of conflicts. According to him, international cooperation underpins peace, allowing countries to complement and support each other, and work together. Today we celebrate his 1️⃣4️⃣2️⃣birthday. The Italian #EUPioneer helped create the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), which effectively removed the ability of European nations to wage war on. ?? Compilation of milestones in the career of Alcide de Gasperi ©️ European Union / Source: EC - Audiovisual Service. #EuropeanUnion We will always remember the haunting images of the streets of Bucha in early April 2022. As the bodies of Ukrainian civilians killed in executions were discovered, so was a gruesome truth of Russia's war of aggression. Yet, the Kremlin tried to bury the horrific truth with its disinformation playbook: ?? Deny ?? Blame others ?? Confusing facts ?? Lie The attempt to confuse the world and escape responsibility failed. Multiple investigations – including a detailed UN report – have established Russian culpability. On #FactcheckingDay, we reaffirm our commitment to countering disinformation by setting the records straight. ?? © Reuters Drumroll, please! We're thrilled to announce that two European cities have taken home the prestigious Mobility Award and Mobility Action Award for innovative mobility for their outstanding commitment to green transportation! ?? ??Braga ???? won the European Mobility Week 2022 Award for its outstanding activities in favour of green mobility, ??Metropolia GZM ???? won for the very first edition of the Mobility Action Award for innovative mobility solutions proposed by a local university. A special mention to Chernihiv, Kamianets-Podilskiy, Lviv, Poltava and Uzhhorod, the ???? Ukrainian cities that organised sustainable mobility awareness raising activities, despite the full-scale Russian aggression. Congratulations to all finalists and winners! ?? 1) Braga, Portugal ©️ Abobe Stock/ ph Matyas Rehak 2) Katowice, Poland © Metropolia GZM #EuropeanUnion #MobilityAwards #SustainableMobility municipio_de_braga metropoliagzm Equal work deserves equal pay. ??⁼?? And for equal pay, you need transparency. This is particularly important for women, who still earn less than men for the same work. That is why we proposed new EU rules on pay transparency that got europeanparliament's approval this week. They introduce an obligation for employers to be transparent about pay levels in the job vacancies or before a job interview. Employees will also have the right to request information on average pay levels, broken down by gender, for workers doing the same job. This is another step towards a #UnionOfEquality. #PayTransparency What happened in Bucha one year ago has shattered humanity. Heinous devastations and cold-blooded killings of civilians can’t go unpunished. These are war crimes. We stand with the victims of these atrocities, we #StandWithUkraine. ??© Getty Images, A man pushes his bike through debris and destroyed Russian military vehicles on a street on April 06, 2022 in Bucha, Ukraine. Are we ready for the digital transformation that’s happening on both sides of the Atlantic? From the use of data to interoperability and mergers in the digital markets, the EU-US Joint Technology Competition Policy Dialogue is working hard to ensure a fair, inclusive and competitive market for everyone. At its third meeting, Executive Vice President vestager is meeting with US antitrust experts Lina Khan and Jonathan Kanter to discuss the latest challenges that technology poses to competition authorities in Europe and the US. We are committed to working together on global trade and technology based on shared values. ???????? ???? What new digital trends are you the most curious about? Tell us in the comments ↓ ?? Executive Vice President vestager prepares for EU-US mission #DigitalEU #EU #EuropeanUnion ?? Up to 37 million tons of plastic waste is expected to enter the ocean annually by 2040. Do you still think waste sorting is a loss of time? On the International day of Zero Waste, let’s have a look at what waste means: ?? nearly 30% of the world's agricultural land is occupied to produce food that is never consumed, ?? between 2 and 8% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions are produced by the textile sector, ?? 2.24 billion tons of municipal solid waste annually produced by humanity. But we are united to fight these global changes. How? ?? With the Right to Repair initiative, aiming at reducing waste and allowing consumer to achieve considerable savings, ?? with the rule on single-use plastic products, which tackles their disseminations, ??with the Farm to Fork strategy, aiming at creating a sustainable food system. Reducing our waste will allow us to save money, preserve resources, and protect the planet. Let's make every day a #ZeroWasteDay! ?? Illustration by karikaturalv #FoodWasteEU #ReduceReuseRecycle #EuropeanUnion ourplanet_eu For prosperity, For peace, For Good. We will soon mark 25 years of the #GoodFridayAgreement! ??️ The Good Friday (Belfast) Agreement was signed on 10 April 1998, offering a political solution to end the 30 years of bloody conflicts in Northern Ireland. After a quarter of a century of peace, we recently renewed our commitment to maintaining peace and prosperity with the Windsor Framework. A new chapter in EU-UK relations, the Windsor Framework will preserve peace by avoiding a hard border on the island, while also protecting the integrity of the EU’s Single Market. The UK may have left our Union, but peace remains the European promise. Together, we will keep working for reconciliation in Northern Ireland for the next 25 years and beyond. ???????????? ?? Russia's war of aggression has put immense pressure on Ukraine's healthcare system, putting the lives and health of people at risk. We haven't stood still. ?? As of today, more than 2,000 Ukrainian patients have been transferred to receive specialised care in hospitals across Europe via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. ?? They have been transferred for treatment to 20 European countries: ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, ????, and ????. ?? Last January, we stepped up our medical evacuation operations by opening the EU Medevac Hub in ???? Rzeszów, a facility capable of offering 24/7 assistance and swift transfer of patients. Our work will not stop here. We will support Ukraine – and its most vulnerable patients – for as long as it takes. Follow eu_echo for more information on humanitarian aid. #StandWithUkraine #EUSolidarity Wondering about wandering Europe? ?? There's only ONE DAY LEFT to apply for a free #DiscoverEU travel pass! If you're a citizen or legal resident of ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? ???? and born between 1 July 2004 and 30 June 2005, this is your chance to explore Europe and make unforgettable memories. Don't miss out on this amazing opportunity to travel and discover the beauty and diversity of our continent. ?? Apply now on the official Discover EU website and get ready for your next adventure! ?? youth.europa.eu/discovereu_en #TravelEurope #DeadlineAlert #EuropeanUnion ??????️... what else do we need to power Europe's green transition? From solar panels to batteries, we need to develop and produce clean technologies capable of harvesting and storing energy from renewable sources. We proposed the Net-Zero Industry Act to create the right conditions to attract investment and seek to produce at least 40% of the net-zero technologies Europe needs by 2030. We'll achieve this goal by: ?? Fostering investment with simpler and more predictable permitting processes. ?? Boosting demand for net-zero technologies by encouraging the inclusion of sustainability criteria in public procurement. ?? Supporting innovation with regulatory sandbox testing of new technologies. ?? Promoting skills for the net-zero technology industry via Net-Zero Industry Academies. ??Building international partnerships to promote the adoption of net-zero technologies globally. All in all, the new measures will help us become industry leaders, cut emissions, and reach climate neutrality by 2050. Discover how we plan to seize the net-zero industrial opportunities with our #EUDataCrunch. ??© Adobe stock #EUGreenDeal #EUIndustrialStrategy L’essentiel est invisible pour les yeux... Someone once wrote! ??️ Today we celebrate all European authors who made, are making and will make us cry, laugh, love over incredible stories. By opening a book, a whole universe pops up: adventurer characters, fiction novels and charming memoirs... what an incredible variety we have in the EU! On the first ever Day of the European Authors, we celebrate all the writers, poets, dramatists, biographers and many more who contribute to making our literature panorama so rich and varied! Who is your favourite author and what is your favourite book? Let us know in the comments! #ReadWithEurope #EuropeanUnion creative.eu european_youth_eu The criminal stains of Russia’s war of aggression are still to be fully gauged. Yet, the documented deportation of 16,200 innocent children stands out for its wickedness. Their abduction and change of status – including nationality – are horrible reminders of the darkest time of our history, a blatant violation of human rights and international law. In partnership with Ukraine and Poland, we are stepping up our efforts to help find these Ukrainian children by: - holding a conference to build up international pressure and take all possible measures to establish their whereabouts; - assisting UN bodies and international organisations in gathering further information on deported children, including those adopted or transferred to Russian foster families. All these children must be brought back to their homes in Ukraine. There will be #noimpunity for this crime. ?? “We will not forget” by Yuliia Honchar for creativesforukraine From ensuring a fair and open single market to support Ukraine and exploring new opportunities in trade EU-US, EU leaders had a full agenda at #EUCO this week. Their main takeaways from the summit: ???????????????? They reaffirmed their support for Ukraine including a new initiative to return abducted Ukrainian children and provide military assistance. ????????????????????????????????, ???????????? ???????????? ?????? ?????????????? The EU Green Deal Industrial Plan is essential to boosting competitiveness and productivity, and EU leaders agreed to prioritize it. They aim to invest in infrastructure, research and development and strengthen supply chains through trade agreements. ??????-???? ?????????? EU leaders addressed concerns about access to the US market for EU leased electric vehicles and the treatment of critical raw materials. They also agreed to launch a dialogue on clean tech subsidies. ?? President Ursula von der Leyen at the #EUCO press conference together with the Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and UN Secretary-General António Guterres, Eurogroup President Paschal Donohoe and ECB President Christine Lagarde © European Union, 23-24 March 2023 / Source: EC - Audiovisual Service / Photographers: Dati Bendo. #StandWithUkraine #SingleMarket #EuropeanUnion Did you turn the lights off? In support of #EarthHour, the lights at our headquarters are off tonight. Our homes, workplaces and public buildings are responsible for 40% of the energy consumed in Europe. The world's largest environmental movement earthhourofficial reminds us that small actions can make a great difference for our planet. With the #EUGreenDeal, we are taking action to promote energy efficiency and achieve energy savings in the fight against climate change. Switch your lights off and join us in safeguarding our planet! ?? The Berlaymont/©️ 2023, EC Audiovisual Service/photographer Lukasz Kobus #EarthHour2023 ourplanet_eu People in Türkiye and Syria have our support. A total of €7 billion was pledged on 20 March at the International Donors' Conference that we co-hosted for the people in Türkiye and Syria. Team Europe’s pledge of €3.6 billion represents more than 50% of the total pledge, including: ???? €1.1billion from the European Commission, ?? €500 million from EU countries, ?? €500 million from the European Investment Bank, ?? 1.5 billion from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the coming weeks, months, and years, we will continue to work together to support those affected. Learn more with our #EUDataCrunch ?? #TogetherForTürkiye #TogetherForSyria #TeamEurope Torture, ill-treatment, sexual violence, and summary executions are known to have been committed by Russian forces. Not even children are being spared. On the international day for the right to the truth, our thoughts are with the victims of human rights violations and their families, and our determination remains steadfast in holding Russia accountable for these horrific crimes. We are doing everything in our power to bring the perpetrators to justice. Just one year ago, Eurojust coordinated the creation of a joint investigation team on crimes committed in Ukraine to enquire on Russia’s actions. The European Union is also supportive of the role of the International Criminal Court. And we also believe that there needs to be a dedicated tribunal to prosecute Russia's crime of aggression. We stand united for justice for Ukraine. Justice will prevail. #RightToTruth #EuropeanUnion 